Update project status (#43)
canonical/oneapi-packaging: README.md

# oneAPI Packaging for Ubuntu :rocket:

> This repo contains Debian package definitions for components from the [oneAPI Base Toolkit](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/base-toolkit.html). These packages are built from open source implementations, which may differ in functionality from the closed sourced versions available in Intel's official repositories (e.g. the compiler).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repo contains Debian package definitions for components from the [oneAPI Base Toolkit](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/base-toolkit.html). These packages are built from open source implementations, which may differ in functionality from the closed sourced versions provided by Intel.
```

> The packages are now available directly from the Ubuntu archive beginning in Ubuntu 26.04 (Resolute Raccoon).

Reviewer 2: I believe this nicely describes the PPA packages. Question I have is how this document relates/reflects the same packages in vanilla Ubuntu 26.04?

Author: The updated version of the README.md describes using the packages directly from Ubuntu 26.04 (without the PPA). Maybe you were looking at the old version accidentally? 

You should be looking at this version: https://github.com/canonical/oneapi-packaging/blob/frenchwr/update-project-status/README.md

> The packages are now available directly from the Ubuntu archive beginning in Ubuntu 26.04 (Resolute Raccoon).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The packages are available directly from the Ubuntu archive beginning in Ubuntu 26.04 (Resolute Raccoon).
```

sudo usermod -a -G render $USER
```

You need to log out and log back in for this change to take effect.

## 2. Install packages from the Ubuntu Archive

### 2.1 DPC++ compiler

```bash
sudo apt install dpclang-6
```

> ### 2.2 oneDPL library

Reviewer 3: I might be misunderstanding the use case of the README but it looks like this first part is describing how to run a basic SYCL application, in which case `oneDPL` and `oneDNN` shouldn't be needed.

Author: Yeah, you're right. Section 2 was meant to document how to install any of the 3 oneAPI packages available in 26.04, while Section 3 focuses on small hello worlds for using the packages. I'll clarify that.

```bash
sudo apt install onedpl-headers
```

### 2.3 oneDNN library

```bash
sudo apt install libdnnl-sycl3
```

## 3. Build and run SYCL* applications

Applications written in SYCL* C++ can be compiled using the `dpclang++` command. For example:

```bash
dpclang++ -fsycl sample.cpp -o simple-sycl-app
./simple-sycl-app
```

Alternatively, use `pkg-config` to discover details for `libsycl` at build-time:

```bash
$ pkg-config --cflags sycl-dpcpp-6
-I/usr/lib/dpclang-6/llvm/include
$ pkg-config --libs sycl-dpcpp-6
-L/usr/lib/dpclang-6/llvm/lib -lsycl
$ pkg-config --modversion sycl-dpcpp-6
6.2.0

> ```

Reviewer: The `pkg-config` output only provides the ability to include SYCL headers and to link with the run-time library; it doesn't provide the ability to compile SYCL source files that define SYCL kernels (that requires use of `dpclang` and the `-fsycl` option). Thus, this doesn't provide an alternative, but rather a way for non-SYCL compilers like LLVM/Clang and gcc to make limited use of SYCL features.

Author: Ah I see. I'll clarify.
